TW-780 Remove information about sharing collection JSON links (#4438)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/collaborating-in-postman/sharing.md

---

You can collaborate on Postman elements including collections, APIs, and environments, by sharing them or by moving them to a shared private, team, or public workspace.

To share your work using workspaces, you need to be signed in to your [Postman account](/docs/getting-started/postman-account/).

> > This page information has information about sharing Postman collections, APIs, and environments using the **Share** function. Other Postman elements are shared differently:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This page has information about sharing Postman collections, APIs, and environments using the **Share** function. Other Postman elements are shared differently:
```

> * To share a collection as a file, see [Importing and exporting data](/docs/getting-started/importing-and-exporting-data/).

## Contents

* [Sharing Postman elements](#sharing-postman-elements)
    * [Sharing using names, emails, or groups](#sharing-using-names-emails-or-groups)
    * [Sharing using a Run in Postman button](#sharing-using-a-run-in-postman-button)
    * [Sharing using the Postman API](#sharing-using-the-postman-api)
* [Sharing elements with external users](#sharing-elements-with-external-users)

## Sharing Postman elements

You can share your collections, APIs, and environments with collaborators. There are a two different ways to share an element:

* In the sidebar, select the element you want to share, then select the more actions icon <img alt="More actions icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-more-actions-v9.jpg#icon" width="16px"> > **Share**.
* Open the element you want to share, then select <img alt="Share icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-share.jpg#icon" width="16px"> **Share** from the element's overview page.

> To copy an element's URL to your clipboard, you can also hover over the element's name in the overview page to display the link icon <img alt="Link icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-workspace-link-v9.jpg#icon" width="18px">, then select the link icon <img alt="Link icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-workspace-link-v9.jpg#icon" width="18px">.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To copy an element's URL to your clipboard, you can also hover over the element's name in the overview page and select the link icon <img alt="Link icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-workspace-link-v9.jpg#icon" width="18px">.
```

### Sharing using names, emails, or groups

You can share collections, APIs, and environments directly with collaborators, including team members, groups, and external users.

1. From the element you want to share, select <img alt="Share icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-share.jpg#icon" width="16px"> **Share**.
1. Select **With people**.
1. Enter the name, email address, or [group name](/docs/administration/managing-your-team/user-groups/) for the people you want to share the element with.

> 1. If you are an [Editor](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/) on the element you are sharing, you can give your new collaborators a **Viewer** or **Editor** [role](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/) on the element. If you are a [Viewer](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/) on the element, you can share it, but you won't be able to assign roles.

Reviewer: Since all three links in this step go to the same location, I think you could remove the links on "Editor" and "Viewer" and just keep the link on "role"

If the element you want to share is in a private workspace, users who don't have access to the private workspace will be invited as workspace Viewers when the element is shared with them.

### Sharing using a Run in Postman button

You can share collections in a website or README with a Run in Postman button.

<!-- vale Postman.Avoid = NO -->

1. From the element you want to share, select <img alt="Share icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-share.jpg#icon" width="16px"> **Share**.
1. Select **Via Run in Postman**.

<!-- vale Postman.Avoid = YES -->

For more information on making and using a Run in Postman button, read [Creating Run in Postman buttons](/docs/publishing-your-api/run-in-postman/creating-run-button/).

<img alt="Share a collection with a Run in Postman button" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/share-collection-run-in-postman-v10.jpg"/>

### Sharing using the Postman API

> You can share collections using the Postman API.

Reviewer 2: To close out GH issue 4441:
* Add a second sentence explaining this a bit more. This gives read-only access to anyone with the key; it always returns the latest version of the item; keys can be managed/revoked.
* Mention that there's the "manage keys" link, and put in a link to the text you're going to add for the next point.
* On `https://learning.postman.com/docs/developer/intro-api/#generating-a-postman-api-key` - throw in a subhead that mentions that there are also keys for collection access, and you can delete them. (And link back to the first part.)

Author: Thanks @jkonrath-postman and @postfrzero! I've made these updates and would appreciate another look 👓

<!-- vale Postman.Avoid = NO -->

1. From the element you want to share, select <img alt="Share icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-share.jpg#icon" width="16px"> **Share**.
1. Select **Via API**.

>     * Select **Get collection JSON using Collection Access Key** to share the collection's JSON file. Anyone with this link has read-only access to the collection's JSON file. This Postman API endpoint serves the data that reflects the current state of the collection.

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: Not *technically* a file. We can just say "collection's JSON".

    * Select **Link to collection in public workspace** to provide a link to the collection. Anyone with this link can view and fork your collection.

<!-- vale Postman.Avoid = YES -->

<img alt="Share a collection with a Run in Postman button" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/share-collection-via-api-v10.jpg"/>

## Sharing elements with external users

> > Your team must have [available slots](/docs/administration/billing/#changing-your-plan) or [Auto-Flex enabled](/docs/administration/billing/#utilizing-auto-flex) to invite more team members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Your team must have [available seats](/docs/administration/billing/#changing-your-plan) or [Auto-Flex enabled](/docs/administration/billing/#utilizing-auto-flex) to invite more team members.
```

When you share a collection, external users who aren't on your Postman team will receive an invitation to join your team right away if you're a [Team Admin](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/#team-roles) or [Super Admin](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/#team-roles).

If you have a [Developer role](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/#team-roles) on your team and you are on a Free, Basic, or Professional plan, external users you share an element with are added to your team as Developers automatically, without the need for approval by a Team Admin.

> If you aren't a Team Admin or a Developer on a Free, Basic, or Professional plan, a Team Admin must approve your request to share an element with an external user.

Author: Thanks for calling this out! Updated the wording accordingly.

> If you have a [Developer role](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/#team-roles) on your team and you are on a Free, Basic, or Professional plan, external users with whom you share an element are added to your team as Developers automatically, without the need for approval by a Team Admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a [Developer role](/docs/collaborating-in-postman/roles-and-permissions/#team-roles) on your team and you are on a Free, Basic, or Professional plan, external users you share an element with are added to your team as Developers automatically, without the need for approval by a Team Admin.
```
